# Generative VQ-VAE model on the HipMRI Study on Prostate Cancer using the processed 2D slices
## Overview
The aim of of this problem is to create a generative model of the HipMRI Study on Prostate Cancer using the processed 2D slices using a Vector Quantized Variational Autoencoder (VQ-VAE) and pixel CNN. 

## VQ-VAE
A vq-vae model is a generative model which combines elements from VQ and VAE. There are three key parts to this model: encoder, decoder, codebook layer.
Input data is loaded into the encoder, a neural network, and trasnformed into latent representation. The latent vectors are quantised into a finite set of embeddings by using nearest neighbour search to replace continous latent presentations with the closest vector from the codebook (a finite set of vectors).The final part is the decoder which essentially attempts to decode the now quantised latent variables and reconstruct the image to its original form. 

## Pixel CNN

Pixel CNN is another generative model used for creating images. It does this on a pixel to pixel basis through auto-regression. More specifically, it models the joint probability of all the pixels in that image and generates pixels based on pixels before teh curretn pixel.

In the case of pixelCNN in VQ-VAE, it is used to model the distribution of the latent code, training pixelCNN to capture patterns within the latent space ultilising a autoregression process. Once fully trained, the pixelcnn is able to generate new set of latent code following the distribution of the latent code produced by the encoder.

The output image is generated by decoding the newly generated latent code using the VQVAE decoder which reconstructs pixel by pixel. 

##Dependencies

| Dependency | Version |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| torch| Content Cell  |
| numpy| Content Cell  |
|||

## Results:
# VqVae Training
The VQVAE model was trained with the whole training set because the model is generative. The model has 5000 updates and a batch size of 32. The loss components consists of three key types: reconstruction Loss (MSE), embedding loss and total loss. The reconstruction loss is measured as the mean squared error between the original input data and reconstructed data. The total loss is the sum of embedding loss and reconstruction loss. It is used for backpropagation.
